# Project: Out-of-Distribution Detection

This is an introduction of the codes for reproducing the results in my reports.  I use three pretrained models to evaluate the OOD detectors, including DenseNet-BC, Wide ResNet and ResNet. The pretrained models should be stored in the ```./models/``` folder as ```./models/densenet10.pth```, ```./models/wideresnet10.pt``` and ```./models/resnet20.pt``` respectively. The pretrained pretrained models can be downloaded  from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PbOalSanfZv-t_90xIvbP0DbZhPCzk7l/view?usp=sharing). 

I use the pretrained DenseNet-BC model provided by the paper [Enhancing the reliability of out-of-distribution image detection in neural networks](https://github.com/facebookresearch/odin). The Wide ResNet is trained by myself and the introduction for pretraining a Wide ResNet will be given below. And ResNet20 is pretrained in Homework 3 and I use it directly without any pruning or quantization.

The datasets related to this project are CIFAR-10, SVHN, LSUN (crop), LSUN (resize), MNIST, Uniform Noise and Gaussian Noise. Except for LSUN and Noise datasets, I download the other datasets from their official websites. The LSUN datasets are provided by the paper [Enhancing the reliability of out-of-distribution image detection in neural networks](https://github.com/facebookresearch/odin) as well. And the Uniform Noise as well as Gaussian Noise are generated by myself. I have uploaded all the datasets I used in this project [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XpQqI94LgJz29W4DFDcMMCPNln86SuQV/view?usp=sharing) for reproducibility.

### Pretrain a Wide ResNet

The codes for pretraining Wide ResNet are in ```./train_main.py```. To run these codes, use the following command at root.

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python3 ./train_main.py
```

You can also change the training hyperparameters by using the options in the command. For more details about the options, see ```./train_main.py```.

### Reproduce the OOD Detection Results

To reproduce the results in the report, refer to ```./main.ipynb``` which is a notebook containing all codes to produce the results of Baseline and ODIN. There are three parts in the notebook:

1. The first part (Block 1 and 2) is used to load the pretrained model. Uncomment the codes that corresponds to the model you want to evaluate with in Part 2 and Part 3.
2. The second part (Block 3 - 14) is used to produce the results of Baseline and ODIN. Each two blocks produce the results on one OOD dataset. See the titles in the notebook for the name of OOD datasets.
3. The third part (Block 15 - 18) evaluates the effects of IPP. Specifically, Block 15 and 16 shows the results on LSUN (crop) with and without IPP. Block 16 and 17 shows the results with different perturbation magnitudes.



